Healthy Lifestyle Application

Summary: The day-to-day behaviors and functions of individuals in job, activities, fun, and diet known as lifestyle are essential health factors. According to WHO, 60% of related factors to individual health and quality of life are correlated to lifestyle [1]. According to AARP's Global Council on Brain Health, lifestyle is critical in preserving brain health as people age. Also, in [2], it is shown that the primary determinants of the chronic diseases of ischemic stroke, coronary artery, diabetes, cardiovascular, and some specific cancers, are not genetic but environmental factors, including diet and lifestyle [3]. Therefore, lifestyle choices are important to the brain and the rest of the body's health, as well as prevent most diseases. 

Due to the mentioned points, we all might have heard through different educational resources about how much valuable nutrition, exercise, listening to good music, and relaxation help us enhance and strengthen the brain and boost our immune system defenses. However, when we get involved in daily activities, most of us forget to keep tracking of our lifestyle. That is whether our daily food has valuable nutrition, we do enough exercise, or what affects our mood diary and mental wellbeing. It is time to have an application to realize long-term monitoring of our lifestyle and give us weekly or daily tips without interfering with our daily activities. This Smartphone-based healthcare application is cost-effective for long-term health monitoring. Moreover, the data can enable the prevention of disease that is worth a cure and reduce measurable health costs and excess resource consumption. The realization of this application is by utilizing smartphone sensors, and other applications in combination with AI methods.  
 References
1. Farhud, Dariush D. "Impact of lifestyle on health." Iranian journal of public health 44.11 (2015): 1442.
2. Mintzer, J., Donovan, K. A., Kindy, A. Z., Lock, S. L., Chura, L. R., & Barracca, N. (2019). Lifestyle choices and brain health. Frontiers in medicine, 6, 204.
3. Willett, Walter C., et al. "Prevention of chronic disease by means of diet and lifestyle changes." Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries. 2nd edition (2006).
4. Majumder, Sumit, and M. Jamal Deen. "Smartphone sensors for health monitoring and diagnosis." Sensors 19.9 (2019): 2164
